[Music]
you
hello friends so we start this new
section on visual memory and this has to
do with how picture is perceived or
visual images are performed now at the
beginning of this session I should tell
you that visual imagery was something
which was not very popularly taken in
cognitive science and already psychology
the reason because that visual imagery
cannot be tested it's very difficult and
so it's like what behavior is just to
say there is no way of testing onto it
and so how do we understand visual
imagining now let me ask you a question
you all live in house or kind of an
hostel and you have been living there
for a long period of time for certain
periods of time the thing is if I ask
you this question all of you wherever
you leave you have a window and
perfectly sure that they you have and so
if you have a window it would have a
window sill also and so how many windows
cells do you have in your window let me
give me a will give you a minute to
think about it so you come up with an
answer let's say four five six seven
some people would say I don't have a
window say live by the window frame onto
it some people would have glass windows
and so there is no question of self let
me ask another question you all live in
a house or some kind of an hostel and so
there are walls there I'm pretty sure
most of your house have was now what is
there on the Left wall from your bed and
I'll give you another minute to
basically answer the question so all of
you have a wall in your bedroom and so
what is there on the left wall of your
house of your bedroom from the bed so
left from the bed the wall which is
there what do you have on it and so most
people will have different different
kind of answers you will have a poster
on to it you would have maybe some shape
on to it some kind of
torsions onto it or something or the
other now let's go back a little now
when I ask you this task or when I asked
you to relate this task of telling me
what you have on the wall or of the
question of how many windows cells that
you have on the window how did you come
up with an answer
now most people what they did was they
went back mentally and reimagined the
situation now at this point of time when
you are looking at this lecture when you
are hearing this lecture
you're obviously sitting maybe at your
house maybe at the place where you have
these walls or not or you are somewhere
else less in a garden look sitting in
the understanding ourselves sitting in
looking at this lecture so when these
questions were posed to you what you did
was you mentally traveled back to that
place and thought about the wall or made
a structure of the wall so you went back
from here went back to the window went
back to your first to your room then
looked at your room mentally and this
remember all of these is happening
mentally and then you've turned yourself
oriented yourself towards the window
counted the number of sill and then
related back there to this information
or you went to your room a bedroom
looked at the bed and looked at
identified very as the left wall and
once you have identified where the left
wall is then you looked at the image
which is on the left wall and identified
what is there and so this traveling back
of you into these realms or in your
house mentally traveling back through
your house and counting these sails or
telling me what is on the wall is
basically what is the process of visual
imagery and the process of visual memory
so basically visual memory is that kind
of memory which stores visual
representation of things and so as we
saw that in short-term memory we use
acoustic representations
in long-term memory we use the semantic
associations the meaning related
representations visual representations
are another representations which
actually help us in remembering a lot of
things now the idea of visual
representations of visual imagining
together of visually imagining something
was something which was challenged right
from the very beginning in cognitive
psychology although Allen Bayview did a
lot of work in terms of visual images no
stop here think about a coffee cup when
you do that what really goes on in your
brain now scientists have looked at the
process of when you imagine something so
when I'm imagining when I'm closing my
eyes and imagining a coffee cup all the
same processes which happen in
perception for example taking in the
stimuli through the eye transfer of this
image to the visual area from the visual
area which is exhibited in the occipital
lobe from there into the medial temporal
lobe where it will be identified where
it could be categorized or pattern
matching will happen and from there a
feedback given to the frontal area which
will then make meaning from the input
which is arriving from the middle
temporal lobe
so all this process happens in
perception is similar that happens in
visual imagery except the one process
and the process which doesn't happen in
mental imagery is the input of stimulus
from the eye because eyes are closed so
when you're imagining the exact same
processes go on to your brain as when
you are perceiving something and so
kosslyn did a number of scanning
experiments a number of work onto it a
huge number of work onto it and
basically related to these metal
imaginaries now as I said the way to
start with the debate was there but
whether a visual imaginary is something
which should be studied or visual codes
is something which should be studied or
not although it is very efficient this
cause a very efficient and bizarre you
in a number of situations but should we
study it or not and so earliest
psychologists had a problem with it exam
for one instance the behaviorist had a
number of problem with it the question
is that visual images are personal to
people right people have when I say
imagine a coffee cup
you're imagining on a coffee cup and
this imagination is very personal to you
and know where I can interfere and see a
coffee cup and so there is no way for
empirically testing it there is no way
to testing the fact that whether you are
imagining the coffee cup or not and so I
cannot beat you or I cannot go ahead and
anyway verify whether you are imagining
a cup or not and so you can fake and so
once it doesn't run this process doesn't
lead to testing while one says this
process doesn't lead to empirical
testing the process that the process
itself should not be qualified to be
called a science and so initially this
was not studied a lot but with the
coming of the book called mental
representations the dual process
approach by Allen pebeo this idea of
visual codes a real memory came to the
forefront so what is visual memory is
now exactly or what is visual imagery
exactly it is the same thing as
perception - the perceptual input to the
eye the visual imagery uses the same
kind of input and as we will see in this
section what is visual imaginary what
are the basic features of it why it is
used and what are the benefits of using
visual imagery and so visual imagine a
as I said is another kind of mental
representation for example there are
four or five kind of mental
representations that are there mental
representations are basically
demonstration or mental representations
are a copy of the physical
representation the physical world as it
is copied into the psychological Ilham
into the mind LM is mental
representations and so two codes that we
have looked before is the semantic code
symmetric representation and the
acoustic representation and with that we
have the propositional representations
and we also have the visual
representation so we look into the
propositional represent
the visual representations although the
propositional representation is
something which we looked at before in
terms of Addison's theory in the
semantic memory where he talked about
propositional thought and how
propositional representations are
represented into semantic memory so
let's begin this section on visual
memory so what is visual imagery visual
imagery is basically information which
passes through the brain as though
something is being perceived when
nothing actually is happening so when I
gave you this task of looking at the
window sill or counting the window cells
are looking at the wall in your house
and telling me what is on the wall what
you did was you imagine these you
started perceiving this right
you started mentally going back to this
and then thinking about it and so the
process of mentally going back was
similar to what perception is - the
input from the eye all other processes
are same and as I related before in this
introduction that kosslyn scanning
techniques or costing work on scanning
where visual scanning represents or
showed through fMRI that same areas of
the brain get activated when you are
visual imagining as when you are
perceiving - the input so more or less
the same areas get activated right and
so these are fMRI studies which have
been done on people when they are
imagining something and when they are
actually perceiving something so
basically someone may experience sight
smell sound and touch as a result of
visual imagery when none of these
stimuli xur present true basically
visually majorie also similar to visual
imagery you can have different
imaginaries also for example you could
also have imagery of smell so when you
imagine good food when you imagine
eating a pizza that is called the smell
imagery or when you imagine some dog
barking with auditory imaginations or
touch imaginations where you have
imagine that somebody touches you or
something touched you that is haptic
imaginations and so visual imagine is
not confined itself to the visual domain
the imaginary can also happen in
different domains so matter is a process
which is exactly manifestation or which
is basically a complete replica of the
perceptual process but - the input
system and visual imagining involves the
use of mnemonics now visual imaginary it
furthers the use of mnemonics and these
mnemonics actually help us in organizing
knowledge and remembering knowledge
better to improve recall so if we use
mnemonics these these are techniques of
organizing knowledge or basically saving
knowledge and so once we can do that we
can also use this mnemonic techniques to
remember information better look at this
particular figure and then I ask you
what do you see so I'm pretty sure by
now you are um answer to what you are
seeing so it looks like a piece of the
cake it also looks like some kind of
spongebob kind of animal which has a
carrot coming out or a horn coming out
of the nose and it has it's a kind of a
birthday thing so this is this is like a
complex picture or this is a
manifestation which is there but most
people would have imagined something or
other out of it this is the idea of
imagination when I show you this picture
you think about something or you imagine
something to it so it could imagine it
to be anything it could be a party
situation it could be SpongeBob
SquarePants or it could be person having
a birthday blast or it could be two legs
here two hands here the eye the nose
here two eyes or it could be this is the
but they cap that it has and so on and
so forth so and number of imaginations
and number of things and when what you
are thinking about it the reply that you
are giving to me is based on your
imagination so what is mental imaginary
good for one of the best things with
this mental course a mental
representation is it enhances recall it
helps you in organizing knowledge
and enhancing record and one way to do
it is through using mnemonics and making
mental chords out of it
hello water pneumatics these are
basically a process of making mental
representation individual format and
then help us in organizing information
in recalling them better so mnemonics
involve the construction of mental
picture of images which help us in
increasing our chances of remembering
information so as I said before it tells
us in mentally creating a mental picture
or something right so when I say imagine
a coffee you created a mental picture of
it and so that is what mnemonics also
does it helps you sue and helps you to
create a mental picture and what does
this mental picture then do it helps in
better remembering information and there
are several techniques or mnemonics
which are which can be used and so what
we'll do is we'll use or we'll see so
some of the techniques in this
particular section in this particular
lecture number are the first and most
famous technique of mnemonics that have
been used for creating mental code and
for remembering things together for
organizing information is called the
method of loci now what is the method of
loci the method of loci it requires the
learner to imagine a series of places
locations that have some sort of order
to them so in this case what happens is
if a large bit of information has to be
imagined what I do is I create a mental
image of a house or a number of
locations and then tag each information
into these locations for example if I
have a lot of information to remember
let's say I have a list of words to
remember so what do I do
I then remember a place I then remember
or I then imagina my house and several
things in this house and then go ahead
and tag each of this list of words onto
these places so next time when we when I
think about this house that tag the word
with the house come back to poor fur so
imagine a case
where you have been given ten items to
basically bring from the shop so suppose
you want to remember a list of ten items
to shop and so we often when we get in
this situation we forget some of these
items out of the ten item at least two
items we are born to forget but if you
use mnemonics we'll never forget because
these are visual codes of remembering so
let's say there are 10 items that we
need to remember and so these are the 10
items that we need to remember in a
shopping list for example bananas eggs
milk bread cereal cake sugar wine
flowers and chocolates so 10 different
items which have been given to us and we
need to go ahead and remember all of
this and then do shopping for this while
returning from our work so how do I
remember all these items no since there
are 10 items and the limit to short-term
memory is 7 plus or minus 2 so the
chances are that I'll forget some of
these so how do I make sure that I don't
forget any of these items one way of
doing this is using a method of loci
mental creating a method of loci for it
and for that I have created imagination
space a visual imagination so try
imagining your front door but with a
huge banana instead of the visual handle
then when you open the door and walk
into the entrance the flow is covered in
eggs and you have to walk over the eggs
to get into the living room so I'm just
creating an image first and then we'll
transform that into image then imagine
the ax crackling under your feet and the
mess anyway it gets much messier because
when you open the living room door
you're almost knocked off your feet by a
river of the milk that comes gushing out
your struggle over the window to pull
out the curtains which have turned into
two giant slices of breads then you try
to turn on the TV but fail because there
has been replaced by a very large packet
of cereal time to have a sit down but
when you collapse on the sofa you sink
down into the sofa size ginger cake so
the kitchen you go to a kitchen for a
drink walking across
kitchen floor is a bit difficult as the
knee-deep in sugar and when you have
reached the cattle you find it is turned
into a bottle of wine now I prefer white
but you can visualize whatever color
wine you want to now give up and go for
your mug of water unfortunately when you
reach down a mile further mug from the
cupboard it is filled with a bouquet of
flowers and when you turn to the tap on
his chocolate not water but chocolate
comes out of it
so I created a scenario like this I
created a picture like this
and see these are the 10 items which I
want to remember so then this is the
mental picture so there is where the
banana is here where the eggs is which
is crackling these are the windows
curtains which are now like a bread the
TV turns out to be something where a
giant cereal box and so I'm sitting in
the sofa which looks more or less like a
ginger bird red I'm sorry and then this
water turns out to be wine and chocolate
comes out of the my tap and here are
flowers so what I have done is I have
taken all these things and put him into
this figure now next time when I am
although this is a very very hilarious
figure so next time when I am into the
shop I just have to remember this figure
and this is called the method of loci
what I have done is each location the
door is a location and now associated
the banana with it similarly curtains is
a location on which I have tagged on the
bread and similarly TV is a location on
in your house which I have tagged up to
be the now the serial
similarly the sofa is a location on to
which I have made the gingerbread and
the other locations as well so this is
the method of loci where what I do is a
very famous place a place which I'm very
familiar to is taken and then items
which have been learned on to or which
you want to learn on that is tagged on
to each place on to these location and
this is the method of loci so where it's
a funny fair funny picture and it's very
easy to remember a next technique that
can be used for easing out or using
visual code is called the technique of
interacting images so here it's very
simple what
we need to do is states that the recall
of concrete nouns on a list is improved
when participants were told to form
images of the words in comparison to
when they were not given such an
instruction and so the technique of
interacting you may just says that when
we have to learn words in a list it is
better to form mental imagery of the
nouns concrete nouns and then interact
and make an interaction between
different words in unknown for example
in a bad word recall test or the pair
dog and pipe dog in pipe where the item
of this fad recalled test so if that is
to remember what the easiest way to do
is to remember the image of a dog and to
imagine the image of a pipe and then to
interact this picture together imagine
the picture of a dog which is smoking a
pipe and that is what it is the image of
a dog smoking a pipe will make better
recall and images of the dog and pipe
kept together the reason is that it is
funny and it is noble and so humor is
one of the easiest way of remembering
things so instead of then thinking about
the dog separately in the pipe
separately I can think about a dog
smoking a pipe and this basically is the
easiest way so dog is basically a
concrete noun and pipe is basically a
concrete noun so what I have done is I
have created an image with dog and pipe
interacting together or dog smoking pipe
dog smoking pipe and this is much easier
or much better way to remember so
technique of interacting images says
that if you are number upon concrete
nouns or imagine these nouns and then
make images of these nouns interacting
figures and that is an easy way to
remember things a third method which is
not so visual which isn't used uses
visual imagery for remembering can also
be used and this method is called the
PEG word method so what we do here
is that it involves picturing the item
with another set of ordered cues packing
them onto the queue
so basically if in this case what we do
is there is an ordered list that we know
and we then peg the new item onto the
ordered list now in this case the queues
are not locations but rather nouns that
come from a memorize a list so in case
of the method of loci there are certain
nouns certain locations which have been
used so use the door as a location and
the banana onto the load in this case we
don't use locations rather we use a
number of concrete nouns which come from
memorize lists so those lists that we
learned when we are very small in class
nursery and all so those lists are there
and so we can go ahead and untag or
basically pick a new word onto those
lists and we can remember and so a good
example is here but all of you know this
list so we know 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 kind of
a thing and so one is now related to
other word 1 2 is related to shoe 3 is
related to 3 4 is related to door
similarly 20 is related to 20 30 is
related to dirty 40 related to warty 11
to lever 12 12 13 - thirsty 14 to
forking 16 to reaching 70 to heaven
dan80 too weighty so basically what we
have done is since we know there were
also some rhyme called one two buckle my
shoe three four shut the door five six
pick up the sticks kind of a thing so
basically these are memorized lists so
we know 1 2 3 4 5 6 is something which
is taught to us very early on or a for
Apple B for ball C for cat deferred also
ABCD is a structure which we know
beforehand or 1 2 3 4 is the structure
which we know beforehand and so when we
want to learn a layer of concrete known
we pick them together we tag them
together now one part the Q part of the
list is coming from memory and it is a
memorize list that target part is what
we peg on to and so since that Q is easy
as the Q is memorized tagging the target
is easier for us to remember this paired
record and so this is the third method
and so this method doesn't use
imagine e because what we are doing is
using a memorize list whereas the first
two methods use imagery the third method
is not using imagery because it is using
some kind of memorize list for
remembering now in order to study
mnemonics generally use visual imagery
and how visual imagery functions there
are two ways of explaining how these
mnemonics really work now what is the
way in which these mnemonics actually go
ahead and work and so how do they lead
to better recall now one of these
approaches of how pneumatics actually
work is provided by Allen purview in his
book in his 1983 book which is mental
representations and dual coding approach
like his book talks about how mental
representations are what mental
representations are and so what Arendt
fails in very simple words what his
proposal is originated from the dual
coding hypothesis of memory so he get a
dual coding hypothesis of memory where
which he says is the main reason for
mnemonics to work so why didn't he
Mannix actually work why do making
mental imagery of things actually work
in terms of better remembrance is
because there is something called the
dual going approach which is proposed by
L L in patio and what is this idea that
he propagated he says that the l TM
contains two distinct coding systems so
the long-term memory has not just the
semantic coding system there is another
coding system which is out there for
representing information to the store so
Allen pareo believes that the l TM uses
two different codes for storing
information one of it is called is in
the wearable domain so one code which is
used by the long-term memory for storing
information is verbal which contains
information about items abstract
linguistic meaning so those meanings
which are abstract those meanings which
are semantic in nature those meanings
which are linguistic in nature are
generally stored as the visual code and
the other inverse imagery the mental
picture of some sort that represents
the item looks like so remember in cat
the concepts in categorization we looked
at the best way of concepts and
categorization was the exemplar method
and so looking at exemplar how do you
remember an example so exemplar a
certain features certain abstract
features that are verbal in nature and
then it has a visual feature also for
example how do we remember a car we can
remember a car by its model and also
certain abstract features for example it
has an engine it has for those four
windows it has seat for sitting it is a
method of transposition and so these all
these methods are or all these features
are verbal in nature but the model of
the car that comes to mind when you are
thinking about it is visual in nature
and so what he says is there are two
basically codes in LTM the verbal is
basically abstract linguistic meaning
and the imaginary there is the mental
picture of some sort of representation
when the item looks like how does it
look like what is the example of it no
previous idea is that picture and
concrete words give rise to both
horrible labels and visual images so
when you imagine it something there are
two codes that actually run there are
two different ways or two different
formats in any kind of remembrance in
any kind of storing that happens in
memory one is the visual and the other a
verbal label so when I am thinking of an
angry man when I am asked to remember
and angry men what my LTM does it not
only flashes the word angry man but it
also flashed the model this angry man
model or this person who looks angry
also when we are looking at the word
survivor I'm also my know brain is also
looking at this kind of a thing when I
am thinking about Elvis Presley my mind
is also having an image of it and so
this is the verbal label and this is the
imagery label and so they combined
together to form the final coordinate
Ian
so my LTM then stores two codes for
everything a visual code and imagery
code the verb
code is the one in which the linguistic
abstract prepositions stored on to and
the imaginary code is exactly example of
it so when I am thinking of a sick child
this is the image that I am thinking or
toddler this is what the image comes to
shoes this is what the image comes to
and so what L previous is these two
codes interact together to form the
final representation or final imagery
that happens in long-term memory now in
addition to what Aaron favio says in his
dual coding hypothesis that there are
two codes the visual code and the verbal
code which actually go ahead and form
the representation in memory there is
another explanation to it which is
called the relational organizational
hypothesis and so what is the relational
organizational hypothesis this
hypothesis was presented by Bower in
1970 B I'm sorry the B is the study
which I'm talking about the 1970
published two papers and one paper was
not on the relational I organization
hypothesis B is a reference to this
paper so in 1970 he proposed the
relational organizational hypothesis and
what is the hypothesis say it's the
theory states that imaginary improved
memory not because images are
necessarily richer so the reason why
imagined improves memory is not because
images are rich then verbal labels it is
not that images are richer in the sense
that it can be thought of it can be
imagined or it can creates a model a
visual model of it not that reason then
verbal level but because imagined
produces more associations between the
items to be recalled now when I think
about imagine about something it lends
itself to a number of folks when I think
about something very imagine something
when I imagine about a particular
picture or a particular fact and a
number of hooks are made or number of
connections are made number of
associations are made so when I think
about a sick child the word sick child
will not be that much better then
the idea that when I think about a sick
child and think about the image of a
sick child and I do that a number of
associations in reform of about his
condition about so many other variables
which are there and so that will lead to
better remembering it so when the word
sick child comes in front of me it is
not a better code but when a face of a
sick child comes into me it will
associate with it the emotion sure will
and that is why it is said that pictures
speak a thousand words it will give so
many different associations not only if
a fact that who's this child is why is
he saying what is this a crike and so on
and so forth it relates so many
information out of it and that is the
reason why it is better so forming an
image typically requires a person to
create a number of links or hooks
between the information to be remembered
and the other information and that is
what I said when you imagine something
when I imagine a sick child it is not
just the sick child word that I'm
thinking about or the idea that the
child is sick when I am seeing an image
of a sick child there's so many things I
am imagining for example I'm imagining a
positive non positive about him I am
feeling a sad mood when I'm seeing a
sick child also I'm thinking about what
kind of disease does he have how does it
look like where does he come from
what are his background what has his
parent like what is his age whether it
is a concussion or whether he is a
nation or what kind of other things
which is there so thinking about a sick
child or imagining a sick child will
create so many associations and so many
different different cues for it to be
remembered then just the word we sick
child because the word sick sure has a
meaning related form but the picture of
a sick child will create a number of
cues on to it so Bower in 1970 he
expelled there an experiment to
distinguish dual coding hypothesis from
relational organizational hypothesis and
was the experiment light so what he did
was he gave people two letter words to
start it also he gave people two letter
words
to start with and so these two letter
words we're either to be remembered just
as words to be remembered just as images
or to be remembered as interacting
images and so in a pad recall test this
is the experiment that he did and he
Bauer gave people or subjects to
remember word pairs right and so first
group so this is the word pair that
people had to remember so train and wall
is the word fair that people have to
remember now there are three groups
which were asked to do that in the first
group there is an overt who wrote
repetitions of people will be shown
train and a wall and they will be asked
to recall this word parent so this is
just one entry of the list there are
several entries which other
the first group will only see the train
in a wall and this is a verbal code so
people have been shown this formal
chordal have been asked to to do wrote
repetitions to remember this or to learn
this by her clue to saw two images one
they saw a train the other saw a wall
and so these people were shown images of
both the two target so mostly in my pad
associate learning I have a cue word and
a target word the Q word is the one
which comes before the target is the one
which is connected to the Q word
so in my train wall my train is the Q
word and the wall is the target word so
when I say train you will have to say
wall or when I present train you would
have to present come up with an answer
of what similarly in this case in the
first group people were made to learn
the verbal code for train involved in
the second group people were shown a
train and a wall which are not
interacting with each other and they
were asked to remember the whole list in
this way a third group was there where
an interacting image was made so in this
case a train and a wall fused together
so now I see your train coming out of
the wall so this looks like a Great Wall
of China and a train forming with this
and this is the
interacting image and so later on a
recall of this WordPad list was done and
what was the answer to this or what was
the result of this people who do did
remote did not do these associations or
learn the list through horrible code
they produced 30% they were efficient
30% of the time and their accuracy was
30% whereas people who just learned
separate images their recall was not
better or they recall vice-versa then
the recall of people on it wrote
repetitions or which learn the list
through a verbal code but people who
formed interacting images they produced
the highest number of accuracy rate of
53 percent which basically means that
when people use images and interact
images them are more number of hooks are
made here the images have a number of
hooks but they're not connected but here
what has happened is one image hook is
now related to the other image hook and
so a number of cues are now present and
so train wall could be very easily
remembered for it and so this is Bauer's
experiment in which what we found out is
that the more number of hooks that I
have the better the reputation or better
the recall of a test like this and so
his idea is that why imagery is better
is because it lends itself to forming a
number of hooks number of remembering
paradigms now what is the existence of
imagery so Lee books in 68 they yes some
of the best evidence that images are
distinct from rubber materials or images
are better than verbal materials or at
least use different processes than the
verbal material so liberal did a number
of experiment some experiments to show
that verbal materials are better than
verbal materials and they use the verbal
and the visual materials use different
codes for tagging so in one of these
experiments a letter like this was
presented to people and then a strict
sign was there
and so what people were asked to do is
to mentally move right so this is an
arrow and mentally move anti-clockwise
so move clockwise mentally from star to
mark each corner as the topmost and
bottom most that is there so you have to
give an answer and there were two ways
to give an answer first what you have to
do is look at this F start from the
Asterix sign move clockwise mentally to
mark each corner so these are all
corners as the topmost other bottom most
corner so that is what you have to do
this corner this corner this corner this
corner this corner this corner this
corner you have to tell me whether these
corners are the topmost of bottom most
and so the answers of this has to be
provided in a response sheet like this
either people have to say verbally yes
or no or people have to mark their
answers into yyy and n n so each time
when you go from corner to corner
whether this is the topmost bottom most
you have to put a circle like this on to
why on n one way of responding the other
way of responding was verbally say yes
and no right so this is one experiment
in the other experiment people were
asked to indicate for each word whether
it is concrete no not not concrete not
so we were asked to relate that whether
each word in this a bird in the hand is
not in the bush and so relate back
whether each of this particular word is
a concrete not or is not a concrete not
and that is what you have to do that is
what was supposed to be done and same
example here the same kind of response
here what do you think happened what was
the result of the experiment like this
now the result of this experiment was
people who use imaginary people who was
mentally moving things together they
were better off in terms of circling
this yn and rather than verbally
presenting an answer and people who were
asked to relate back the concrete noun
those people were better off saying
verbally yes and no rather than say
circling the YNN which basically proves
that there are two different codes when
you are doing something mentally when
you are doing a job mentally when you
are rotating mentally in the clockwise
direction and finding out whether any
corner is the topmost the bottom most
then in those cases visually because
you're using visual imagination visually
marking is better produces better
accuracy then in the case in which you
are verbally verifying a sentence and
finding out whether and down is concrete
or not and answering also verbally and
so that was the answer to date so people
in the spatial location people in the F
verification spatial verification
usually imaginary exist
it basically visual imagining is present
and they help us visual imaginary helps
us in remembering things better in he'll
present better remembering also there
are certain other tasks which were used
to form to basically show that visual
imaginary exists and so one of this is
comparison tasks and so people may ask
these questions whether a truck is
bigger than a car or truck is with
bigger than a bicycle or a truck is
bigger than a van now if these questions
are asked people were faster in telling
our truck is bigger than a bicycle then
telling those basically relating to
those giving answers to those questions
we say that truck is Rea whether it is
related to a van or not
so whether truck is rigueur than a van
the answers were slow in comparison to
those questions in which it was asked
whether truck is related to bicycle the
answer here is that people create mental
images of a truck and a bicycle Enka do
the comparison so when we are creating
mental images of a truck and a van
they almost look similar and so
comparisons are slow a number of
comparisons has to be done and so the
answers are slow but when you are
looking at a bicycle end and a truck
there are too many different
in it and so the comparison is faster
and much better and much smoother then
in the first case and this is basically
called the symbolic distance effect it
basically means that if two items are
further apart or have greater distances
in comparison standards they are faster
verified in terms of mental imagery then
when they are close together in a
particular comparison standard so
basically in this section then what we
did was we looked at what is mental
imagery we saw what mental images are
and we also saw what is this kind of
code as I said before we have looked at
different codes and here we looked at
another interesting code which the LTM
has which is called visual imagery we
also looked at some very interesting
ways of helping you remember a number of
things are helping you perform better in
an exam by using mnemonics and I showed
you three different techniques which are
there one of the technique is the method
of loci what we tend to do is imagine a
place that you know very well and then
are tagged on the list of words that you
want to remember onto certain locations
on that list
our second method is called backward
method in which what you tend to do is
remember number of in the penguin method
in wrote memorize lists and so you take
whatever has to remember into particular
rule is that you already remember pick
the new word onto that and third model
are basically a third of your for a
third mnemonic method is the interacting
imagery in which what you do is make two
images and make them interact together
and once you make an interacting image
of two images that will be better
remember that will help you to better
remember is we also saw evidences of the
fact that imaginary does exist and if
imaginary exists that we saw that if a
task is of a particular type then a
particular kind of magic or a particular
kind of responses better we also saw the
certain reasons of what how
national mnemonics really worked so
there are two ways of looking into it
either looking at Alan previos idea of
interacting images of two different
codes how they interact together or the
idea of Bauer where he proposes the
relational hypothesis where he says that
interacting images are much better than
the simple mere images simple where
solve the solitude images so we will
conclude this section here will again
continue with the resurrection in the
next lecture for now goodbye
[Music]
you